---
title: I'm Not Dead Yet!!!
permalink: /content/2009/11/11/im-not-dead-yet
layout: post
categories:
- Me
- sysadmin
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---
Contrary to the lack of posts on my blog, I'm still alive. I apologize for not
writing much, but things have been **so** busy lately. At $work, I'm working
on rolling out a forklift upgrade in a lab environment that involves:

  * Upgrade our application servers from Solaris 9 to Solaris 10.
  * Upgrade Java from 1.4.2 to 5. Yes, I know that 5 is already EOL, but our API vendor runs on Weblogic 9, which is constrained to Java 5.
  * Speaking of Weblogic, upgrade that from 8.1 to 9.2.
  * Upgrade our ecommerce API from version 6.x to 10.x
  * Upgrade our Apache frontends from 2.0 to 2.2 - Done!
  * Implement a couple of Nginx boxes as a static HTTP servers, allowing our Apache servers to focus proxying and URL rewriting.
All of this of course needs to happen in parallel with the normal firefighting
;-) Oh, and I'm trying to get
[Puppet](http://reductivelabs.com/products/puppet/) up and running in the lab
in all my free time. On the other hand at $home, I've been doing a lot of work
with [Drupal](http://www.drupal.org). I'm working on designing a photography
site for a friend. Heck, I've even had some code committed to [the node
gallery contrib module](http://www.drupal.org/project/node_gallery)! I've got
two books I've yet to crack open, [Mac OS X Snow Leopard: The Missing Manual](
http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0596153287?ie=UTF8&tag=sysajour-20&linkCode=a
s2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=0596153287), and [Pro Drupal Develop
ment](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1430209895?ie=UTF8&tag=sysajour-20&link
Code=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1430209895). I'm trying to
read through [Pro Git](http://progit.org/book/ch3-2.html), and [Pulling
Strings with Puppet](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1590599780?ie=UTF8&tag=s
ysajour-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=1590599780).
All of this productivity came to a screeching halt last Friday, when I got my
[Motorola Droid](http://verizonwireless.com/droid). The best part about my HTC
running Windows Mobile was that it kept me in the dark about how fricking cool
a real smartphone can be! As part of my new addiction to my phone, I caved in
and signed up for a Facebook account -- don't worry, I didn't give them my
email password, so no one will get any spam. Feel free to [hit me
up](https://register.facebook.com/justin.d.ellison) though! I have to admit,
the sheer number of users is impressive; but it's the percentage of those that
are actively using it every day that is incredible. So, stay tuned. There's a
lot of good posts coming - book reviews, a Droid/Android review (with an SA
POV of course), and who knows, maybe some Drupal related stuff.

