---
title: "Product Review: FileRun PHP File Management System"
permalink: /content/2009/08/03/product-review-filerun-php-file-management-system
layout: post
categories:
- Reviews
- sysadmin
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---
[![large_filerun.jpg](/assets/images/large_filerun.jpg)](/assets/images/fileru
n.jpg)

At work, we had a need for software that addresses a specific problem. We have
a bunch of users that need to share files in a secure manner via HTTPS, but
the app has to be drop-dead easy. Being an e-commerce shop, we could have
written our own, but we didn't have the time and resources. We could have
outsourced it to [box.net](http://www.box.net) or a similar service, but the
company frowns upon outsourced solutions. I happened to stumble upon
[FileRun](http://www.filerun.com), and I have to admit that I've been very
impressed. Read on for the full review.

First things first, let's get the negatives out of the way. There's just a
few, and they didn't impact us:

  * FileRun encrypts it's PHP code using [Zend Guard](http://www.zend.com/en/products/guard/), making the majority of their code not viewable by the end user. In order to run Zend Guard encrypted binaries, you have to install a PHP module to run them.
  * The [online documentation](http://docs.filerun.com/index.php?title=Main_Page) covers only the basics. Many of the features are undocumented, but are fairly self explanatory.
  * The software is written by developers in Romania. Again, this was not a problem for us, but emailing support sometimes got replies at odd hours of the day.
Now, onto the positives. First of all, FileRun is very well written software.
I've found only one bug, and it was a minor bug introduced in only the most
recent update. I emailed support about it, they offered to patch it for me
immediately if I couldn't wait for it to be fixed in the next release. The
development team operates under the "release early, release often" mantra,
with new updates coming out about once a month. The support is very good; I
got fast, knowledgeable answers to all my questions. The pricing is very
workable and advertised on their site, and there is [an online demo offered at
their site](http://www.filerun.com/demo). Where the software shines is in it's
interface. The main file interface is a typical Windows-like explorer window
with two panes - one for folder navigation, the other for contents of the
selected folder. Using AJAX, they have made the application feel more like a
desktop application than a webapp. There are three methods of uploading files,
one is a standard HTML form-based upload, the second is a Flash-based upload,
and the third is a Java applet. The java applet allows for drag-and-drop
uploads, and it also gets around the PHP upload limitations allowing you to
upload unlimited file sizes (I uploaded a 2.6GB Solaris DVD iso to it and it
didn't skip a beat!). Any user who is used to file management on a desktop
system will be off and running in no time. The backend has the concepts of
Users, Groups, and Roles. Roles should probably have been called a "User
Template", because that's really what they are. Each user can have one Role
assigned to it, and the Role overrides settings such as home directory,
permissions, etc. Groups are simply containers that hold one or more users,
and each user can belong to zero or greater groups. Groups are used for
sharing folders and setting permissions on shares. If I'm in Accounting, I can
create a new directory under my home directory, and share it to the Payroll
department. When a member of the payroll department logs in, they will see my
shared folder. I can dictate whether payroll can upload, download,
rename/delete/change files and folders in that shared directory as well. While
Groups are used to set permissions on files shared between authenticated
users, one of the biggest requirements for us was to be able to offer
downloads to unauthenticated users. This is where the weblinks feature comes
in, and I believe it's the biggest feature in the application. Once I upload a
file to FileRun, I can generate a weblink. This is simply a link generated by
the PHP script that looks something like
http://my.domain.com/weblinks/?id=b6d767d2fde85d21a44b0e4567680cb9. The user
generating the weblink can set a shared password on the link, set an
expiration date for the link, or even set the max number of allowed downloads
for the link. The UI also has built in support for emailing a weblink directly
from the app instead of copy/paste into your MUA. FileRun supports thumbnail
generation via the **convert** binary from ImageMagick, so anytime a user
uploads a pdf, jpg, png, psd, etc, a thumbnail is generated. There is also a
search index feature where MS Office documents and PDF's are indexed and are
searchable via the UI. FileRun also supports versioning, but I haven't yet
researched whether or not the versioning stores only the deltas, or complete
copies of the files - I suspect the latter. Another important feature of
FileRun is that it stores the file itself on the filesystem - metadata is
stored in MySQL. This means that you can interact with the files from the OS
as well as from within FileRun. Another nice feature is the fact that it
supports zip/unzip operations from within the UI, no need for external
programs to create/extract zip files. Features that are there, but I haven't
played with yet include:

  * Online editing via Zoho.com and Snipshot.com
  * WebDav - MS Web Folders isn't supported (what's the point?)
  * Email files as attachments.
  * All actions are logged to the DB, and you can generate email-based notifications using rules. You can get emailed about every little activity, or only failures.
  * External Authentication is supported.
  * A recycle bin prevents unintended deletions.
  * See FileRun's [full feature list](http://www.filerun.com/features) for more details.
We've been using the software here for a couple of weeks, and I love it. It
solves a problem for us that would have cost a lot more in dev time than what
the licensing cost is, and they support the software, not us. It's not without
it's issues, the pros far outweigh the cons.

