---
title: Lead SysAdmin position available
permalink: /content/2011/04/06/lead-sysadmin-position-available
layout: post
categories:
- Linux
- Me
- sysadmin
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---
There's a blog post to follow with when/why, etc., but without
further ado: I'm moving to a new position at Buckle, and that means
we need a new Lead SysAdmin.  It's a great job at a great company,
in a great place to raise a family (Kearney, NE).  You get paid
well, get a good yearly budget for new toys, and equipment, and
it's overall a very fun position. If interested, [drop me a
line](http://sysadminsjourney.com/contact), and I'll make sure your
resume gets the proper attention.  To apply online, [click
here](https://storefront.kenexa.com/buckle/cc/CCJobSearchAction.ss?command=CCSearchPage),
and search for jobs within 5 miles of zip code 68845.  The job
title is "Web Development - Lead Systems Administrator". Here's the
job posting: JOB DETAIL Job Title:  \*\* Web Development - Lead
Systems Administrator\*\*
![image](https://storefront.kenexa.com/buckle/cc/images/orange\_line.gif)
Location:  Buckle Corporate Office & Distribution Center  2407 W
24th Street  KEARNEY, Nebraska 68845-0000
![image](https://storefront.kenexa.com/buckle/cc/images/orange\_line.gif)
Job Description:  \#\#\# Lead Systems Administrator \*\*Position
Summary:\*\* The Lead Systems Administrator will be responsible for
the deployment and maintenance of Unix/Linux systems and
application software in multiple environments. The ideal candidate
will possess a deep understanding of large scale Unix deployments
and will lead the team responsible for the infrastructure serving
all e-commerce and intranet applications. Additionally, this person
must be able to function effectively in a fast-paced environment
where projects range from maintenance to upgrades to new
deployments and technologies. Our Systems Administrators also serve
as Network Administrators for the smaller networks their systems
reside in, so strong knowledge of ethernet, TCP/IP, and network
security is required. \*\*Responsibilities:\*\* • Maintain all
servers and workstations on WSD team, including production,
development, and staging of servers for the e-commerce platform and
company intranet • Setup, maintain, and manage an enterprise-class
backup strategy for WSD team servers and workstations • Automate
tasks via custom scripting • Assist in architecting and designing
solid server solutions \*\*Requirements:\*\* • Expertise in setting
up robust and reliable server architectures. Additionally, a large
appetite for automating the mundane is preferred and will be
encouraged. ● In-depth knowledge of technologies that include but
are not limited to: Linux systems administration, Java VM tuning,
Weblogic Administration, Apache HTTPD/NGINX Administration, All
layers of TCP/IP, subnetting, etc., IPSEC VPN’s, ISC BIND, Load
balancing and clustering technologies, Shell scripting, Nagios
monitoring and RRD administration, RPM packaging format and
patching best practices • A bachelor’s degree in Computer Science
or other discipline • Minimum 4-5 years of previous
system-administration experience in a professional environment
\*\*Compensation:\*\* Market/negotiable, relocation assistance is a
possibility for the right candidate.


